# Patrik Đurđević

I have been programming since the age of 10 and, at 12, attended my first national competition in algorithms. Excelling at that and many subsequent competitions helped me gain admission to the most prestigious high school for computer programming in Croatia where, in a very competitive environment, I honed my skills and, among other, traveled to Boston for ACSL where my team and I won 1st place.
 
Commencing university was a turning point for me as the field of machine learning quickly became a passion of mine (I did not forget about algorithms, still managing to win 3rd place at the Croatian ICPC). I started taking online courses and, in parallel to my studies, followed Stanford’s CS224n to gain a more formal NLP education. I have since been able to apply semantic phrase matching (siamese network, remembering the benefits of one-shot learning in computer vision) in helping a bank considerably improve the accuracy of one of its models I had built. I realized, however, that, while tuning existing models to the problem at hand was rewarding, I actually wanted to engage in discovering new techniques and architectures to further the field as a whole and achieve unprecedented results.

I also recently applied to SemEval 2022 (Task 4: Patronizing and Condescending Language Detection) as preparation for my BSc thesis. I am particularly interested in coreference resolution (I see it as a core problem of many NLP tasks) and, possibly, also Task 7 of SemEval (Identifying Plausible Clarifications of Implicit and Underspecified Phrases in Instructional Texts).

During the summer of 2021, I traveled to Dubai for Avaya’s Internship Program. The intensive three-week program challenged me in many ways and brought out the best of me. I had to propose data science ideas that would improve Avaya’s service portfolio or optimize its business processes. Creating a compelling presentation about my findings to intrigue the entire Avaya Professional Services leadership team with diverse levels of technical knowledge stretched my skills. Subsequent engagement required me to get more technical and develop a customer churn POC with a discount recommendation system. Deep-learning-powered TabNet architecture designed by Google AI ended up yielding the best results. The model was a success and ended up being showcased at GITEX Dubai.

Finally, having an entrepreneurial spirit, I am always trying to go the ‘extra mile’ as well as innovate. E.g., as a newly elected president of a well established computer science club, I launched four new initiatives and, facing opposing views from some of the 75 members, had to take careful steps to create a collaborative and productive environment for everyone involved. Concurrently, a colleague and I have been developing a consulting methodology centered on data science, garnering considerable interest from potential clients.

Appreciating the simplicity of applying existing well-researched machine-learning models to various business problems makes me want to go a step further and cooperate in researching and utilizing advanced cutting-edge architectures. A dream of mine is to one day found an AI startup with like-minded, ambitious colleagues. Broadening my views with past experiences made me realize I want to be solving real-world business problems with state-of-the-art solutions leaving clients in awe, showing them just how far the field has come while, at the same time, advancing it even further.

I feel tremendous satisfaction in acquiring new knowledge and, complemented with my strong desire to realize my full potential, this pushes me to pursue data science without reservation — aware the field demands complete devotion and commitment. I consider myself mature, analytical, tenacious, accepting of criticism, but persuasive and confident — qualities I believe are quintessential for the profession.
